[docs] Improve the Events doc page (#5413)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/data-grid/events/events.md

title: Data Grid - Events
---

# Data grid - Events

> <p class="description">Subscribe to the events emitted by the data grid to trigger custom behavior.</p>

Reviewer: Rephrasing slightly to frame it in terms what the developer can do with the feature.

```suggestion
<p class="description">You can subscribe to the events emitted by the data grid to trigger custom behavior.</p>
```

## Subscribing to events

You can subscribe to one of the [events emitted](/x/react-data-grid/events/#catalog-of-events) by providing an event handler to the grid.

> The handler is a method that will be called with three arguments:

Reviewer: Am I correct in understanding that the dev might only end up with one or two of these?

```suggestion
The handler is a method that will be called with up to three arguments:
```

Author: There is always three arguments
But sometimevthe `MuiEvent` is almost empty.

You are right that the sentence of the `2` is misleading

How about 

```
2. a `MuiEvent` allowing to disable the default behavior. It can also contain the DOM event or React synthetic event if any.
```

> 1. the parameters containing the information related to the event.
> 2. the `MuiEvent` containing the DOM event or the React synthetic event, when available.
> 3. the `GridCallbackDetails` containing the `GridApi` only if `DataGridPro` or `DataGridPremium` is being used.

Reviewer: No need for periods since this is a list of incomplete sentences.

```suggestion
1. the parameters containing the information related to the event
2. the `MuiEvent` containing the DOM event or the React synthetic event, when available
3. the `GridCallbackDetails` containing the `GridApi` only if `DataGridPro` or `DataGridPremium` is being used
```

> For instance here is an event handler for the `rowClick` event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, here is an event handler for the `rowClick` event:
```

```tsx
const onEvent: GridEventListener<'rowClick'> = (
  params, // GridRowParams
  event, // MuiEvent<React.MouseEvent<HTMLElement>>
  details, // GridCallbackDetails
) => {
  setMessage(`Movie "${params.row.title}" clicked`);
};
```

You can provide this event handler to the grid in several ways:

### With the prop of the event

```tsx
<DataGrid onRowClick={onEvent} {...other} />
```

:::info

> Not all the event have a dedicated prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all events have a dedicated prop.
```

> You can find if the event you want to use has one by looking at its example in the catalog below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the examples in the [Catalog of events](#catalog-of-events) below to determine if a given event has a dedicated prop.
```

:::

> The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using the `onRowClick` prop. Try it by clicking on any row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using the `onRowClick` prop—try it out by clicking on any row:
```

{{"demo": "SubscribeToEventsProp.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

### With `useGridApiEventHandler`

```tsx
useGridApiEventHandler('rowClick', onEvent);
```

:::warning

> This hook can only be used inside the scope of the grid (inside component slots or cell renderers for instance).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This hook can only be used inside the scope of the grid (i.e. inside component slots or cell renderers).
```

:::

> The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using `useGridApiEventHandler`. Try it by clicking on any row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using `useGridApiEventHandler`—try it out by clicking on any row:
```

{{"demo": "SubscribeToEventsHook.js", "bg": "inline", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

### With `apiRef.current.subscribeEvent` [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](https://mui.com/store/items/mui-x-pro/)

```tsx
apiRef.current.subscribeEvent('rowClick', onEvent);
```

> The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using `apiRef.current.subscribeEvent`. Try it by clicking on any row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following demo shows how to subscribe to the `rowClick` event using `apiRef.current.subscribeEvent`—try it out by clicking on any row:
```

title: Data Grid - Events
---

# Data grid - Events

<p class="description">You can subscribe to the events emitted by the data grid to trigger custom behavior.</p>

## Subscribing to events

You can subscribe to one of the [events emitted](/x/react-data-grid/events/#catalog-of-events) by providing an event handler to the grid.

The handler is a method that will be called with three arguments:

1. the parameters containing the information related to the event
2. the `MuiEvent` containing the DOM event or the React synthetic event, when available

> 3. the `GridCallbackDetails` containing the `GridApi` only if `DataGridPro` or `DataGridPremium` is being used

Author: I propose to do a follow up PR to describe the `GridCallbackDetails` into a standalone section later on

For example, here is an event handler for the `rowClick` event:

```tsx
const onEvent: GridEventListener<'rowClick'> = (
  params, // GridRowParams
  event, // MuiEvent<React.MouseEvent<HTMLElement>>
  details, // GridCallbackDetails
) => {
  setMessage(`Movie "${params.row.title}" clicked`);
};
```

You can provide this event handler to the grid in several ways:

### With the prop of the event

```tsx

> <DataGrid onRowClick={onEvent} {...other} />

Reviewer 2: Do you want to keep `onEvent`?

> <DataGrid onRowClick={onEvent} {...other} />

Author: I renamed all of the `handleEvent`

## Catalog of events

> Expend the rows to see how to use each event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expand the rows to see how to use each event.
```
